Welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be steaming ahead with getting our steelworks stk set up and the steam works stk is
going to be the first step towards using steam's online services which allow us to do multi player across
the Internet without having to use VPN.
Like amachi.
So that's going to be really cool.
So the first step is going to be get access to the partner portal on Steam works getting into their
documentation downloading their SDK and we're going to have the SDK extracted in to our project into
our repository and this is what it looks like when it's extracted so by the end of the video you will
have all of this and understand how steam works is going to fit into unreel in the big picture.
So let's dive right in.
So in this lecture we are going to be doing the following introducing steam works and steam in general
to those of you who have never encountered it before.
I don't know what rock he would have been living under but we are going to be introduced again right
from the start.
Sorry I don't mean to imply that you've been living under a rock if you don't know what Steam is but
it's quite common knowledge.
I guess there's that and then we'll be downloading the steamboat's stk understanding what the steelworks
stk does for us and what stk is in the first place.
And then we are going to be going on to understand what Steam works and the unreeling online subsystem
is and how they work together.
Now this is not going to be a challenge in this video but that doesn't mean you can relax.
That means you gonna have to be following along with me it's more about do what I do.
Kind of video rather than a watch what I do then have a chat.
If that makes sense.
So let's plough on.
So the first thing is introducing steam works.
So I am sort of assuming that you are fairly familiar with what steam steam is an online marketplace
for games and beyond being an online marketplace for games.
They provide a lot of in tight integration with these games so you can have achievement systems and
even you can have multiplayer lobby's and such cool things as that.
Okay.
So the idea here is that we are going to be using steam's SDK software development kit to talk to their
cloud and integrate our game and provide multiplayer functionality without the need for a VPN without
the need for a private LAN essentially.
And so we're going to be doing some cool stuff with that.
But first off we need to go ahead and get said stk.
So the place you need to go for that is partner.
And now still be in your links as well.
But you can obviously just type it as well as partner dot steam games dot com.
If you're worried about the you or else the games as the old steam you are all okay and you're going
to go ahead and sign in.
If you've got a steam account or create a steam account if you do not now I'm using a test account here
to show you the process for someone who hasn't signed up to steam works before so I'm going to go ahead
and sign in.
And what we're going to get is all I've got to verify my email so I'm going to do that quickly just
off.
So here is the email I got in another tab basically saying just that you need to do an email verification
for this account.
Click here to verify your email et cetera et cetera.
So this is just because it's a brand new account you probably won't have to do this.
Okay so that's successful.
So I can go ahead and log in now.
Okay.
It's asking me if I want to save my password.
I'm not going to get my password.
And this is the portal that we are presented with as a quote unquote partner.
Now at this point you're not really a partner because you can't download the SDK as you can see here
it's saying get access and view inside the access agree stk Access agreement so you're going to have
to do that in order to get the stk Basic case essentially covered by a nondisclosure agreement which
is this one here which you're going to have to sign which basically means you can't redistribute it
as such.
When I'm putting this in my repository it's actually encrypted so you aren't going to be able to download
it from get.
Like you usually would my other code.
But you will be able to download all the real projects.
It is only for these first few lectures that the code will be inaccessible to you.
But I'm still going to be putting it in get in a way to keep track so that you can see that all the
changes I'm making in the lectures are the changes that are happening and get to be able to see what
changes are happening but not the code.
If that makes sense.
Okay so let's plough on.
Now we can go ahead and download that stk.
So remember the stk is the software development kit and the SDK allows us to do cool stuff with with
steam's cloud and let's go a bit more into detail.
But in before I do that I want to show you around the partner website.
The main thing of the partner portal is its documentation.
You can go to the top tab where there's documentation help and click on View documentation.
Okay.
And under your documentation you have got basically everything about how steam works works and how you
can click on this steam works stk and it tells you more about what's in the SDK you can click on the
web APIs and all other stuff that is involved round steelworks so that's cool.
But we've got our SDK zip here now.
I'm going to go ahead and extract the zip in that to my project folder and open over on another window
helpfully.
So here is my stk zip.
I'm going to get it extract all and I'm going to browse to my project directory which is let's see under
steam multiplayer section and I'm going to be putting in the encrypted folder just to be absolutely
clear.
And it's that folder extracted there.
And it's going to extract my stk in two said folder.
Okay will let it do its extracting job and while it's extracting I'm going to tell you a little bit
about Steam works and how it fits into Unreal.
It's called the online subsystem.
So for that I'm going to head over to my slide deck.
Here is the slide.
And real and steam.
So as I've mentioned we've got steam with some cloud services or it's popped up a window.
That means extraction is complete but it's close.
Okay so we've got steam and we.
It's a cloud service which allows us to do things like multi player without a VPN and to talk to the
hat.
We dont talk to the service directly using any kind of web protocols we talk to it via the steam works
stk which we have just downloaded and that sits as a layer on your computer as a piece of software on
your computer as a library that your code can call into.
In order to play on steam now that's fine if you're building a standalone game but we are building in
unreel we could use the raw stk like this but steam actually provides steam and real provides us a nice
city called the online subsystem.
The online subsystem is a generalization around API.
Like steam works that allow us to swap them in and out so you can have things like the I O S subsystem
or the Android subsystem all of which can allow you to do things like achievements a lot and achievements
and have leaderboards and have user profiles and things like that which steam works stk provides as
well and x box and 3.
And the idea here being that you develop one game which sits on top with the unreal engine on top of
the online subsystem it talks to the online subsystem So does that then real engine and you can choose
to swap out a different online subsystem so you could be using steam.
You could be using Android but the point is you don't have to change your code when you develop for
these different platforms you can use the same online subsystem and that's what we're going to be doing
we're going to be driving steam through the online subsystem.
Now the reason that we're downloading the steam stk Now is not because we need it.
It's actually included in unreal.
The reason we are including it at this stage is because we want to check that it works that everything
with raw steam works fine because then any problems that we might have we know are in the online subsystem
integration because it's what I call a leaky abstraction.
It is the kind of encapsulation around the stk that sometimes needs you to understand a bit more about
the details of what's going on under the hood.
So we need to be a little bit mechanics and be able to open it up and understand what the steam works
stk is providing and how the online subsystem is wrapping that it is still beneficial to use the online
subsystem because it integrates more tightly with and real.
Okay so with that out the way you should now have a clearer knowledge of why we were using the steelworks
stk what Steam works is what Steam is and how it fits into Unreal architecture.
With the online subsystem So the next video we are going to be looking at building the example project
in the steam works stk and I'll see you there.